README.md, before:

# TexCop [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stefan-kolb/texcop.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stefan-kolb/texcop) 

CLI and static code analyzer for TeX files.

TexCop provides CLI commands for the most commonly used tasks when working with [LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/),
e.g., generating a `.gitignore` file, creating the final pdf and validating the `.tex` and `.bib` files.

**Only** works for UTF-8 encoded `.tex` and `.bib` files.

## Installation

Requires JDK 8 with JAVA_HOME set to the JDK path!

    $ git clone https://github.com/stefan-kolb/texcop.git
    $ cd texcop
    $ ./gradlew installDist
    # add texcop/build/install/texcop/bin to PATH

## Usage

    # in your latex directory
    $ texcop pdf # create the pdf with pdflatex and bibtex using main.tex as the starting file
    $ texcop validate # validates all .tex and .bib files
    $ texcop clean # remove all generated files like .div, .pdf, .log, ...

## Commands

	texcop [command]
	
	 cites                        Print used cites
	 clean                        Removes all generated files during a tex build
	 create-gitignore             creates a latex project specific .gitignore file
	 help                         prints usage information
	 minify-bibtex-authors        replace three or more authors with et al. in bibtex entries
	 minify-bibtex-optionals      removes optional keys in bibtex entries
	 pdf                          creates pdf with pdflatex, including bibtex; logs to texcop-pdf.log
	 pdfclean                     executes pdf and clean commands in sequence
	 texlipse                     generates texlipse project files
	 texniccenter                 generates the texniccenter project files
	 validate                     executes validate-latex and validate-bibtex commands in sequence
	 validate-acronym             detects unmarked acronyms in text
	 validate-bibtex              validates all .bib files for the existence of certain fields
	 validate-labels              detects unused labels
	 validate-latex               validates .tex files
	 validate-links               detects malformed and unreachable urls
	 version                      prints the current version

## Configuration

Via `.texcop.yml`.

```yaml
Copname:
  Enabled: false
```

Via inline comments.

```
% texcop:disable Style/AmericanEnglish, Style/KeyboardWarrior
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.
% texcop:enable Style/AmericanEnglish, Style/KeyboardWarrior
```

### Automatically Generated Configuration

For the first run of texcop it is a good idea to use `texcop validate --auto-gen-config` to generate the `.texcop.yml` file including all found offenses. 
The generated file includes configuration that disables all cops that currently detect an offense in the code. 
After that, you can start removing the disabled cops from the generated file one by one to work through them independently and not get overwhelmed by the amount of initial offenses.

### Usage with CI

Running texcop will return a system status code different from zero if any offenses were found.
Therefore, you can use it with a CI server like Travis or CircleCI.
You may use the following `build.gradle` file for now.
The build will fail, if there are any style violations detected.

```gradle
apply plugin: 'java'

buildscript {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.github.stefan-kolb:texcop:master-SNAPSHOT'
    }
}

task texCop(type: JavaExec) {
    classpath = buildscript.configurations.classpath
    main = "texcop.Main"
    args 'validate-latex'
}
test.dependsOn texCop
``` 
    
## Works best when

- the citation style is numeric/alphanumeric.
- each sentence is in its own line.
- your texts are written in English
- labels in tables/figures should be put right after the caption
- does not work that well if you define a lot of custom macros for abbreviating latex commands
- all files are in UTF-8 and use .tex file ending

## Credits

Inspired by [Rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop). Based on [Textools](https://github.com/simonharrer/textools).

Commit message:

Add readme for custom cops

README.md, after:

# TexCop [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stefan-kolb/texcop.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stefan-kolb/texcop) 

CLI and static code analyzer for TeX files.

TexCop provides CLI commands for the most commonly used tasks when working with [LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/),
e.g., generating a `.gitignore` file, creating the final pdf and validating the `.tex` and `.bib` files.

**Only** works for UTF-8 encoded `.tex` and `.bib` files.

## Works best when

- the citation style is numeric/alphanumeric.
- each sentence is in its own line.
- your texts are written in English
- labels in tables/figures should be put right after the caption
- does not work that well if you define a lot of custom macros for abbreviating latex commands
- all files are in UTF-8 and use .tex file ending

## Installation

Requires JDK 8 with JAVA_HOME set to the JDK path!

    $ git clone https://github.com/stefan-kolb/texcop.git
    $ cd texcop
    $ ./gradlew installDist
    # add texcop/build/install/texcop/bin to PATH

## Usage

    # in your latex directory
    $ texcop pdf # create the pdf with pdflatex and bibtex using main.tex as the starting file
    $ texcop validate # validates all .tex and .bib files
    $ texcop clean # remove all generated files like .div, .pdf, .log, ...

## Commands

	texcop [command]
	
	 cites                        Print used cites
	 clean                        Removes all generated files during a tex build
	 create-gitignore             creates a latex project specific .gitignore file
	 help                         prints usage information
	 minify-bibtex-authors        replace three or more authors with et al. in bibtex entries
	 minify-bibtex-optionals      removes optional keys in bibtex entries
	 pdf                          creates pdf with pdflatex, including bibtex; logs to texcop-pdf.log
	 pdfclean                     executes pdf and clean commands in sequence
	 texlipse                     generates texlipse project files
	 texniccenter                 generates the texniccenter project files
	 validate                     executes validate-latex and validate-bibtex commands in sequence
	 validate-acronym             detects unmarked acronyms in text
	 validate-bibtex              validates all .bib files for the existence of certain fields
	 validate-labels              detects unused labels
	 validate-latex               validates .tex files
	 validate-links               detects malformed and unreachable urls
	 version                      prints the current version

## Configuration

Via `.texcop.yml`.

```yaml
Copname:
  Enabled: false
```

Via inline comments.

```
% texcop:disable Style/AmericanEnglish, Style/KeyboardWarrior
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.
% texcop:enable Style/AmericanEnglish, Style/KeyboardWarrior
```

### Automatically Generated Configuration

For the first run of texcop it is a good idea to use `texcop validate --auto-gen-config` to generate the `.texcop.yml` file including all found offenses. 
The generated file includes configuration that disables all cops that currently detect an offense in the code. 
After that, you can start removing the disabled cops from the generated file one by one to work through them independently and not get overwhelmed by the amount of initial offenses.

### Usage with CI

Running texcop will return a system status code different from zero if any offenses were found.
Therefore, you can use it with a CI server like Travis or CircleCI.
You may use the following `build.gradle` file for now.
The build will fail, if there are any style violations detected.

```gradle
apply plugin: 'java'

buildscript {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }

    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.github.stefan-kolb:texcop:master-SNAPSHOT'
    }
}

task texCop(type: JavaExec) {
    classpath = buildscript.configurations.classpath
    main = "texcop.Main"
    args 'validate-latex'
}
test.dependsOn texCop
``` 

## Add your own custom cops
    
The easiest way to add your own cops is to add a new RegEx cop to any YAML file, e.g., `style.yml`.
It's easy to add your checks for typical typos or custom validations.

```yaml
Style/StefanKolb:
  Message: "Stefan Kolb's style set"
  Match:
    - "amongst" # use among instead
    - "independently from" # independently of
    - "faster time" # # shorter time
    - "(on-premise |on premise )" # on premises
    - "\\b[aA]ll of the\\b" # all the
    - "period of time" # period
    - "\\bat al\\b" # et al
``` 

## Credits

Inspired by [Rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop). Based on [Textools](https://github.com/simonharrer/textools).
